---
title: "2.2 Docker Environment"
linkTitle: "2.2 Docker Environment"
weight: 220
sectionnumber: 2.2
description: >
  Getting started with the lab and environment.
---

## Docker Compose

Our setup for the application is quite simple. It consists of the Quarkus service `application` and its database
`application-db`. Further we have three more containers setup. We use `jaeger` as our tracing, prometheus to scrape the
metrics and `grafana` to visualize them in dashboards.

Please head over to the solution repository to inspect the directory structure: {{% param "solution_git_repo" %}}/tree/main/{{% param "folder_monolith" %}}

All configuration for the docker environment is located in the folder `docker`. Inside this folder there are is a
folder `config` containing the config files for `prometheus` and `grafana` which will be mounted to the container.


### Host mapped Container Ports

Starting up the docker-compose will create a bridge network. For simplicity we mapped **all** container ports on to the
docker host. This provides easy access for debugging like attaching the database or if you want to develop in your IDE
and just use parts from the docker-compose.

These are the main Ports of the containers:

Container        | Internal Port   | Host Port     | Purpose
-----------------|-----------------|---------------|----------
`application`    | 8080            | 8080          | Main port of the application
`application-db` | 5432            | 5432          | Database port
`jaeger`         | 16686           | 16686         | Jaeger UI
`jaeger`         | 14268           | 14268         | Port used to send traces from our Quarkus applications
`prometheus`     | 9090            | 9090          | Prometheus service port (UI)
`grafana`        | 3000            | 3000          | Grafana UI

Have a look at [Jaeger Port Details](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/getting-started/) if you need more information
about the available jaeger ports.


### Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1 - Inspecting the docker environment

* Open the solution repo {{% param "solution_git_repo" %}}/tree/main/{{% param "folder_monolith" %}} and get familiar
with the Docker environment
