---
title: "2.6 Application Tracing"
linkTitle: "2.6 Application Tracing" 
weight: 260
sectionnumber: 2.6
description: >
  Inspecting the tracing setup.
---


## OpenTracing with Jaeger Tracing

We use OpenTracing for the distributed tracing. Our tracing backend is Jaeger.


### Dependencies

Our application includes the following dependencies in the `pom.xml`.

GroupId                  |   ArtifactId                   | Description            | Detailed information
-------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------|--------------------------
`io.quarkus`             | `quarkus-smallrye-opentracing` | MicroProfile OpenTracing implementation | [MicroProfile OpenTracing](https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing/blob/master/spec/src/main/asciidoc/microprofile-opentracing.asciidoc)
`io.opentracing.contrib` | `opentracing-jdbc`             | Provides traces for database queries. | [Using OpenTracing](https://quarkus.io/guides/opentracing)


### Configuration

The following configurations need to be made in the `application.properties` to setup the tracing:

```
quarkus.jaeger.endpoint=http://jaeger:14268/api/traces
quarkus.jaeger.service-name=monolith-application
quarkus.jaeger.sampler-type=const
quarkus.jaeger.sampler-param=1
```

* `endpoint`: defines where we will send our metrics
* `service-name`: the name of the current service
* `sampler-type`: `const` defines a constant sampling
* `sampler-param`: percentage of request which are sampled. `1` defines that we want to sample all requests.

Further we need to change our database driver to the tracing enabled driver.

```
quarkus.datasource.db-kind=postgresql
quarkus.datasource.jdbc.url=jdbc:tracing:postgresql://application-db:5432/admin
quarkus.datasource.jdbc.driver=io.opentracing.contrib.jdbc.TracingDriver
quarkus.hibernate-orm.dialect=org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQLDialect
```

Last we change the Quarkus log format to include the `traceId` and `spanId` in the logs. This is not necessary but will
help troubleshooting.

```
quarkus.log.console.format=%d{HH:mm:ss} %-5p traceId=%X{traceId}, spanId=%X{spanId}, sampled=%X{sampled} [%c{2.}] (%t) %s%e%n
```

{{% alert title="Configuration" color="primary" %}}
The configuration listed above may slightly differ from the one used in the solution repository. This is because some
properties are overridden using environment variables in the `docker-compose.yaml` file.
{{% /alert %}}


[full source application.properties]({{% param "solution_rawgit_repo" %}}/{{% param "folder_monolith" %}}/monolith-application/src/main/resources/application.properties)


## Application code

Using the configuration made is basically everything which is needed to get traces from our application. By default all requests to
RESTful endpoints are traced. Using the `TracingDriver` provides spans for all database queries.

If you want to customize the tracing you can annotate any class or method with the `@Traced` annotation. You may also
disable the default tracing with `@Traced(false)`. Further you may inject the `Tracer` to your application code. Using
this tracer you can create custom spans in business methods or add tags to span.

This snipped is from class `ShopOrderService`.
```java
@ApplicationScoped
public class ShopOrderService {
    // ...

    @Inject
    Tracer tracer;

    @Traced(operationName = "createOrder")
    public ShopOrder createOrder(ShopOrderDTO shopOrderDTO) {
        ShopOrder shopOrder = new ShopOrder();
        // ...
        shopOrder.persist();

        tracer.activeSpan().setTag("order.id", shopOrder.id);

        return shopOrder;
    }
}
```

This will create a span for the method `createOrder` and name it accordingly. Using the injected `Tracer` we tag the span
with the just created `order.id`.

[full source ShopOrderService.java]({{% param "solution_rawgit_repo" %}}/{{% param "folder_monolith" %}}/monolith-application/src/main/java/ch/puzzle/mm/monolith/order/control/ShopOrderService.java)


### Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1 - Inspect the application traces

Start up your environment if not already running and point your browser to the Jaeger UI at [http://localhost:16686/](http://localhost:16686/)

Issue requests as described in section 2.4

* Do you find traces for created orders? You may list all traces or use the tag filter `order.id=X`
* How do traces look like if the operationName is not set?
* Do you see the tag `order.id` on the span?
* What happens if you inject an exception as described in section 2.4?

{{% details title="Task Hint" %}}
Traces from application code with no explicit name are named by their class and method. If an exception is thrown, there
will be a tag `error=true` on the span. The Jaeger UI will flag such spans with an exclamation mark.
{{% /details %}}
