---
title: "4.4 Running the Lab"
linkTitle: "4.4 Running the Lab"
weight: 440
sectionnumber: 4.4
description: >
  Building the docker image for the order microservice and start the environment.
---

## Build and run


### Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.4 - Build, start and test your microservices

It's time to test your microservice in action! Create your docker image with the Dockerfile `Dockerfile.multistage.jvm` and tag it as `kafka-order:latest` as defined in the `docker-compose.yaml` and then start up the entire service landscape with `docker-compose up`!


{{% details title="Docker Build Task Hint" %}}
You can build your image with:

```s

docker build -t kafka-order:latest -f order/src/main/docker/Dockerfile.multistage.jvm order/.

```

Start your microservices with:

```s

docker-compose -f kafka/docker-compose.yaml up

```
{{% /details %}}

```text
Starting docker_order_1        ... done
Starting docker_stock_1        ... done
Starting docker_viewer_1       ... done
Starting debezium-kafka        ... done
Starting debezium-zookeeper    ... done
Starting docker_prometheus_1   ... done
Starting docker_grafana_1      ... done
Starting docker_alertmanager_1 ... done
Starting docker_stock-db_1     ... done
Starting docker_order-db_1     ... done
Starting docker_jaeger_1       ... done
```

Your microservice landscape should now be up and running!



If your microservices are ull up and running, open two tabs in your browser. View the kafka-viewer microservice on [http://localhost:8082](http://localhost:8082) and open up the Jaeger UI on [http://localhost:16686](http://localhost:16686). The kafka-viewer will open up an active connection to your kafka topics and show you messages passing through the topics. In the Jaeger UI you can follow your traces through the system.

Now fire a request against the order API to create a new shop order. Let's do a POST request to our `/shop-orders` endpoint and create a shop order with 2 pieces of article 1 and 3 pieces of article 2.

{{% details title="Docker Build Task Hint" %}}
Create the POST request with curl.
```s

curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8080/shop-orders \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "articleOrders": [
    {
      "articleId": 1,
      "amount": 2
    },
    {
      "articleId": 2,
      "amount": 3
    }
  ]
}'

```
{{% /details %}}

Check your browser and see what insights the kafka-viewer and the Jaeger UI give us. You can clearly see where the event was passing through our system in the Jaeger UI. The trace passes from the order microservices' `ShopOrderResource` REST resource to the `shop-order-request` topic on kafka (seen in the kafka viewer) with some content like:

```json
{"articleOrders":[{"amount":2,"articleId":1},{"amount":3,"articleId":2}],"id":100017}
``

Will then be passed to the `shop-order-confirmation` topic to be again confirmed by the order microservice! Our workflow now works.

Can you try to get a compensation event to test your compensation workflow as well?