---
title: "3.5 Using the Lab"
linkTitle: "3.5 Using the Lab"
weight: 350
sectionnumber: 3.5
description: >
  Making requests against the Lab environment.
---


## Available Endpoints

Endpoint                               |    Microservice    | Description
---------------------------------------|--------------------|--------------------------------
<http://localhost:8080/shop-orders>    | Order  | Return and create new orders
<http://localhost:8080/chaos-monkey>   | Order  | Inject errors for testing our application
<http://localhost:8081/articles>       | Stock  | Query article metadata
<http://localhost:8081/article-stocks> | Stock  | List or change the article stock count
<http://localhost:8081/chaos-monkey>   | Stock  | Inject errors for testing our application


## Order state

The order is expected to have the following states

State         | Description
--------------|-------------------
NEW           | Order is created. Stock reservation has not happened.
COMPLETE      | Order is created and the article-stock count has been decreased according to the article counts.
INCOMPLETE    | Order is created but reservation could not complete.


## Sample Requests

In the source folder `<PROJECT_ROOT>{{% param "lab_code_basedir" %}}rest/requests` there is an IntelliJ compatible
HTTP Request file. You may run requests directly from IntelliJ or use it as reference for your requests.


Get article stock information
```bash
curl --request GET --url http://localhost:8081/article-stocks
```

Get order information
```bash
curl --request GET --url http://localhost:8080/shop-orders
```

Create new order
```
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8080/shop-orders \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "articleOrders" : [
        {
            "articleId" : 1,
            "amount" : 1
        }
    ]
}'
```


## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1 - Testing scenario

Run the following queries:

* Check the article-stock count
* Create an order for one item of article `1`
* Check the orders and article-stock again

Answer the questions:

* Is the article-stock count correct?
* Do you see any problems with this implementation?
* What happens if you are running out of stock?
* What’s the role of a transaction in this case?


{{% details title="Task Hint" %}}
This implementation seems to be the most logical and straightforward implementation when we just split a monolith in two
microservices and let them communicate with a simple RESTful API.

The happy-path seems to be working quite well. But the edge cases do not behave quite well. Running out of stock will return
an exception from the `stock` service. The `TransactionalInterceptor` will be triggered by the exception and will issue a rollback.

In the best case our `order` is not created and the stock is also not reserved. But are we sure that the stock reservation has not been
made? The exception might have occurred after the reservation on the `stock` service has been completed. Think about a simple timeout
between these two services.

We could remove the Transactional annotation to not cover the rest call to our stock service. We could then have a look at the response code
to determine if the operation was successful. But would that solve all problems? What if an exception occurred in the `order` microservice
just after the stock reservation?
{{% /details %}}


## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.2 - Injecting an error

Let us inject an error at the end of the `createShopOrder` method of the `order` microservice.

Use the chaos-monkey rest endpoint to inject an error with the following request:
```
curl --request POST \
  --url http://localhost:8080/chaos-monkey \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '[
    {
        "clazzName": "ShopOrderResource",
        "methodName": "createShopOrder",
        "enabled": true,
        "throwException": true
  }
]'
```

This will throw an `InternalServerErrorException` after execution of the method `createShopOrder`.

* Ask yourself what to expect if an exception is thrown?

Issue the request from the Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1 but use article `3` for your order.

* What did you observe?
* Is there any difference?
* Is the data still consistent between `stock` and `order` microservice?
* Can you imagine why any inconsistency may happen?
* What’s the role of a transaction in this case?

{{% details title="Task Hint" %}}
As expected, the reservation took place in the `stock` microservice. However, our local transaction in the `order` microservice was
rolled back as there was an exception. Our Data is no inconsistent as the stock count was decreased but the order was not created.
{{% /details %}}
